post about docker params change detection (#111)
puppetlabs/iac: _posts/2020-09-18-docker-params-change-detection.md

---
layout: post
title: "Docker params change detection"
author: adrianiurca
categories:
  - docker
  - development
tags:
  - bugfix
  - docker
  - personal
---

## Docker params change detection

> An interesting behavior was present in docker::run component. The problem was that if at least one parameter was added/modified/removed puppet agent didn't apply the change only if you stopped, removed manually the container, and reapply the manifest. The solution was to create a new function that detects if at least one parameter is changed. The detection mechanism is based on the check between parameter values from the manifest file and correspondent field from the docker inspect object of the currently running container. The solution is present in the 3.11.0 version. So now let's see how the problem can be reproduced by using version <= 3.10.2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An interesting behaviour was present in docker::run component. The problem was that if any parameter was added/modified/removed puppet agent didn't apply the change only if you stopped, removed manually the container, and reapply the manifest, forcing a new container creation. 

The solution was to create a new function that detects if at least one parameter is changed. The detection mechanism is based on the check between parameter values from the manifest file and correspondent field from the docker inspect object of the currently running container. The solution is present in the 3.11.0 version. 

So now let's see how the problem can be reproduced by using version <= 3.10.2:
```

### 2. apply this manifest:

```puppet
class { 'docker': }
docker::run { 'servercore':
  image   => 'hello-world:linux',
  restart => 'always',
  net     => $facts['os']['name'] ? {
    'windows' => 'nat',
    default   => 'bridge',
  },
}

```

### 3. check the image tag by running this command:

```bash
$: docker inspect --format="{{ .Config.Image }}" servercore
$: hello-world:linux
```

### 4. change the image tag from `hello-world:linux` to `hello-world:latest` and reapply the manifest.

The manifest should look like this:

```puppet
class { 'docker': }
docker::run { 'servercore':
  image   => 'hello-world:latest',
  restart => 'always',
  net     => $facts['os']['name'] ? {
    'windows' => 'nat',
    default   => 'bridge',
  },
}
```

... and now check if the change was applied

```bash
$: docker inspect --format="{{ .Config.Image }}" servercore
$: hello-world:linux
```

so... something is wrong, the tag was not changed to `hello-world:latest`. If we want to apply this change we need to do a few more steps:

- stop the container: `docker stop servercore`
- remove the container: `docker rm servercore`
- reapply the manifest detailed above: `puppet apply <manifest_file_name>`

> In conclusion in the puppetlabs/docker module versions <= 3.10.2 the parameter change is not detected. If we want to change some parameters for the same container, the puppet agent will not apply these changes for us until we delete the container manually. If we use the latest version(3.11.0) this problem is resolved. The parameter detection mechanism is implemented for the most important parameters such as image, volumes and ports, for the rest of the parameters new PRs are always welcomed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In conclusion in the puppetlabs/docker module versions <= 3.10.2 the parameter change is not detected. If we want to change some parameters for the same container, the puppet agent will not apply these changes for us until we delete the container manually. 
Using the latest versions(>=3.11.0) this problem is resolved by having the parameter detection mechanism implemented for the most important parameters such as image, volumes and ports.
```

---
layout: post
title: "Docker params change detection"
author: adrianiurca
categories:
  - docker
  - development
tags:
  - bugfix
  - docker
  - personal
---

## Docker params change detection

> An interesting behaviour was present in docker::run component. The problem was that if any parameter was added/modified/removed puppet agent didn't apply the change only if you stopped, removed manually the container, and reapply the manifest, forcing a new container creation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An interesting behaviour was present in docker::run component. The problem was that if any parameter was added/modified/removed puppet agent would only apply the change only if you stopped, removed the container manually and reapplied the manifest, forcing a new container creation. 
```

> The solution was to create a new function that detects if at least one parameter is changed. The detection mechanism is based on the check between parameter values from the manifest file and correspondent field from the docker inspect object of the currently running container. The solution is present in the 3.11.0 version. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The solution was to create a new function that detects if at least one parameter is changed. The detection mechanism is based on the check between parameter values from the manifest file and correspondent field from the docker inspect object of the currently running container. The solution is present in the `3.11.0` version. 
```

Author: I commited your changes. Thank you @sanfrancrisko

> So now let's see how the problem can be reproduced by using version <= 3.10.2:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So now let's see how the problem can be reproduced by using version `<= 3.10.2`:
```

### 2. apply this manifest:

```puppet
class { 'docker': }
docker::run { 'servercore':
  image   => 'hello-world:linux',
  restart => 'always',
  net     => $facts['os']['name'] ? {
    'windows' => 'nat',
    default   => 'bridge',
  },
}

```

### 3. check the image tag by running this command:

```bash
$: docker inspect --format="{{ .Config.Image }}" servercore
$: hello-world:linux
```

### 4. change the image tag from `hello-world:linux` to `hello-world:latest` and reapply the manifest.

The manifest should look like this:

```puppet
class { 'docker': }
docker::run { 'servercore':
  image   => 'hello-world:latest',
  restart => 'always',
  net     => $facts['os']['name'] ? {
    'windows' => 'nat',
    default   => 'bridge',
  },
}
```

... and now check if the change was applied

```bash
$: docker inspect --format="{{ .Config.Image }}" servercore
$: hello-world:linux
```

so... something is wrong, the tag was not changed to `hello-world:latest`. If we want to apply this change we need to do a few more steps:

- stop the container: `docker stop servercore`
- remove the container: `docker rm servercore`
- reapply the manifest detailed above: `puppet apply <manifest_file_name>`

> In conclusion in the puppetlabs/docker module versions <= 3.10.2 the parameter change is not detected. If we want to change some parameters for the same container, the puppet agent will not apply these changes for us until we delete the container manually. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In conclusion in the puppetlabs/docker module versions `<= 3.10.2 `the parameter change is not detected. If we want to change some parameters for the same container, the puppet agent will not apply these changes for us until we delete the container manually. 
```

> Using the latest versions(>=3.11.0) this problem is resolved by having the parameter detection mechanism implemented for the most important parameters such as image, volumes and ports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the latest versions(`>=3.11.0`) this problem is resolved by having the parameter detection mechanism implemented for the most important parameters such as image, volumes and ports.
```

> Also please take a look at the [sollution](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-docker/pull/648).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also please take a look at the [solution](https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-docker/pull/648).
```
